We will learn to calculate profitability
from the financial statements,
the profitability of
a company and the partners
of the company.
We have started by reinforcing the basic
concept of profitability.
What is Rentability?
This is the profit divided between
the investment.
Therefore, to calculate profitability
we must go, on the one hand,
to the state of results,
to the account of results,
which informs us of the profit.
And on the other hand, we have
to go to the situation balance that
informs us of the investment
we have made.
And what we will do is remember
the functioning of the
balance sheet.
Remember, on the one hand we have the
origins of financing, it is the block
of the right and it tells us where
the financing comes from.
And on the other hand we have the
applications, which informs us about the
destination of those investments.
This is the picture of the balance sheet.
What are the origins?
Equity or equity
and the debt.
Are the destinations?
The assets we invested in.
Well, the most important thing about this
class is that I want you to understand that
there are two different concepts
or two different profitability that are
two different perspectives.
We have economic profitability and
financial profitability.
And I will begin by explaining the
profitability assets.
Rentability on assets.
Why is it called economic profitability?
It is very important that you understand
the difference in the concept between
economic and financial.
Economic refers to the economic
activity of the company.
It does not matter how we are funded.
So how is the ROA calculated?
The net profit is calculated by
dividing the total asset between
the total investment.
How we consider what the company
is doing, whether it has made
good investments, whether it is
getting a good profitability
from its assets, etc.
But this gives us a perspective
but does not give us the full
perspective because often what
we want to know is, well, but what
is the profitability of the
investment we have made?
What is the profitability of
the company’s own funds?
This is called financial profitability.
ROE, Return on Equity, is the term
for profitability on equity.
How is it calculated?
very simple though.
In this case, what we do is divide
the net profit instead of between
the total of the asset, we divide
it between the equity, between
the own funds.
You understand both perspectives.
Now what we need to know is how it
is calculated or how they
relate to one another, right?
And we see it in this formula, it is very simple.
Financial profitability, i.
e. the profitability of equity,
is equal to the profitability
we obtain in the asset, by
the asset, by a multiplier
that has to do with leverage.
Let us see it briefly in this
example.
We will think that this company
that we have on screen with this
balance sheet is getting
a net profit of one million euros
and the equity is 300,000, the
rest is debt, that is, the
partners have put 300,
000 euros.
And now we’ll think of the same
company, but let’s imagine
it has been funded differently.
In this case, the partners instead of
putting 300,000 euros, have put
only 150,000, that is, they have obtained
more debt, they have invested half
that in the previous case.
So what is the return
on funds that the return on profit
is the profit divided between
the investment?
If the investment is half,
the return will be double.
We will see in this formula.
It is the same formula, but more detailed.
The ROE is equal to the ROA, remember,
the ROA is the profit divided between
the asset, by the multiplier.
And here what I want is
that we go to the leverage
multiplier formula.
I am aware that the formula
you will forget in five minutes.
The important thing is that you
understand how leverage makes
multiply or leverage, leverage
the profitability of partners.
Go to the detail.
We will multiply the profitability
of the asset by an amount and
that amount is equal to the asset
divided between the equity.
And so that you are more
intuitive and easier to remember,
let’s look at a case.
Let’s look at a company where the
asset is 100 and the equity is 100,
that is, the multiplier is one,
because there has been no
leverage, because all the asset
has been financed with own funds.
However, now we will see
another case in which there
has been leverage, because
part of that asset that
is also 100 has been funded
with debt and equity we
only had to put 10.
Therefore, there is a multiplier of
10, that is, in this second case
what we have achieved by leveraging
is to multiply by 10 the profitability
we get from the asset.